Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will learn how to customize the raw JSON data that the WordPress rest API outputs.
So, for example, we know that if we go to this, you órale our route and then we add on WP, JSON,
WP, V to posts.
WordPress responds with all of this raw data for the 10 most recent blog posts.
And actually let me open this same Eurail in the Postman app so we can actually make sense of the data
so it's not all smooshed together.
So WordPress sends us back an array of objects in this first object obviously represents a blog post.
Now, this is the data that WordPress gives us by default, right?
WordPress gives us the ID, the date, the slug, the post type, the permalink, the title.
You get the idea.
But the question that we want to answer in this lesson is what if we don't see everything in this data
that we want or what if we want to add a new custom field to this raw JSON data?
Let me give you an example of why you might want to do that.
So back on our website, if someone searches for something and the results contain a link to a blog
post.
Let's imagine that as the designers of this site, we want it to say the title and then by the author.
So this would say Buyology is cool by Brad.
Well, by default, the WordPress rest API does not give you the author's name.
So if I scroll down a little bit, yes, there is indeed a property named author, but it only gives
you the ID number of the user account that created the post.
And that's not what we want.
We want the human readable nickname.
Now, I will point out that if we scroll down a bit further, each post does contain a property named
underscore links and that does contain a sub property named author, which does indeed contain a link
to arrest apicultural for this posts author.
And if you visit that you URL, this API URL will indeed give you the human readable nickname.
Right here we see a value of Brad, but in a perfect world, we don't want to have to send out an additional
U.
RL request for each post in the results.
At the end of the day, that's just going to slow down the user experience for our visitors.
And also it sort of misses the entire point of this lesson.
This lesson's topic doesn't actually have anything to do with authors and author names.
We just want to learn how to add a new custom field, right.
A property and value pair to the rest API JSON response.
So just as a practice exercise, let's go ahead and add a new value named author name that will sit
side by side all of these other properties.
And that way we can use it in our JavaScript to say the title of the blog post by the author.
All right.
So the question right now is how in the world do we do this?
How can we customize the JSON that WordPress responds with?
The answer is that we want to jump in to our theme folder and open up the file named functions, BHP
and right at the top here, right after the opening P tag.
Let's just add a new line and say add action.
And this is a WordPress function that takes two arguments.
Remember, the first argument is the WordPress event that you want to hook on to.
In this case, that is reste API net.
And then the second argument is the function that you want to call during this event hook so we could
make up any name we want for a function.
But why don't we just say quotes and then call it university custom breast?
All right.
Now, if we are telling WordPress to run a function with this name during this event, we better make
sure that a function with this exact name actually exists.
So right now, maybe up here, let's just create a brand new function.
So we just say function and then we want to match this name that we just made up.
So university custom rest, parentheses, curly brackets.
And now within the body of this function here, we can begin customizing the rest API and remember that
in our case, what we want to do is add a new property named author name.
So luckily there's a WordPress function named Register Rest Field.
This function takes three arguments.
So just as a placeholder, let's say a b.
See, now let's go through these one by one.
So the first argument is the post type that you want to customize.
So, for example, you could say post or page, but obviously in this case, we just want the generic
blog post post type.
So let's just say post.
All right.
And the second argument is whatever you want to name the new field.
So remember, I want to add a new property named author name in our code for the second argument.
Let's just say quotes of their name.
All right.
And finally, the third argument is an array that describes how we want to manage this field.
I will explain what that means in just a moment.
But for now, let's go ahead and create the array.
So when you just say the word array and then give it its own set of parentheses just to stay organized
within the array parentheses, I like to dropdown and now we just build an associative array.
In this case, our array actually only needs one item.
This function is going to look for an argument named git callback and we just want to set that to equal
a function.
And whatever the function returns is what will be used as the value for the new field named author name.
So down here where my cursor is, you could provide a name that points towards an already existing function
that you want to use.
Right.
But instead of that, what you can also do is just spell out an anonymous inline function right here.
So you could say function, parentheses, curly brackets.
And again, whatever this function returns will be used as the value for this new field.
So as an example, let's just return a string that says super amazing author name just as a test.
Right.
And just to be safe, right after this closing quote, let's add a semicolon.
OK, now, if we go ahead and save this and then refresh the postman rest API, you are Al.
And then down in the results area, if I scroll down a bit, cool, we see this brand new property named
author name and check out its value.
Super amazing author name.
Now, obviously, we don't want a hard code, a fake value like that.
So let's go ahead and delete that.
And instead, let's just return the results of a WordPress function named Get the Author.
And that will be the dynamic, true author name that could potentially be different for each blog post.
So if we save that and refresh the postman request, perfect author name equals Brad.
Now, before we go ahead and actually use this new value on the front end of our website, right to
say Buyology is cool by Brad.
Before we set that up, I just want to let you know that you can create as many new fields or properties
as you want right below this register rest field function call.
So right after this line, you could just create another call, just say register, rest, field again,
target, whatever post type you want.
Poster, page, choose a property name, maybe perfectly cropped image you url.
I don't know, you can make up whatever you want but the cool part is then you just provide an array.
They get callback equals an anonymous function and now this is where you can really start connecting
the dots between the rest API and everything that we learned during the first portion of this course.
So you're just free to return anything that you can cook up using HP.
So that means you're free to access advanced custom field values.
You're free to grab certain cropped versions of certain images.
You're even free to use custom queries and loops if you want to retrieve data from a related post.
Anyways, the idea here is that if you can achieve it with HP, you can return it as a value here,
which ultimately means you can use it in your JavaScript.
Now, having said that, in this case, I don't actually need to create another field or property at
the moment.
So let me delete that, OK?
And at this point, let's work towards writing new JavaScript that actually uses and displays this new
value on the front end of our website.
So to do that, let's jump back into our text editor and within our JavaScript modules folder, let's
open search J.S. and let's just scroll down to our method named Get Results, since this is what's responsible
for outputting the HTML onto the page.
So try to find the line that begins with the heading level to.
And then just a couple lines below that.
We have this line where we are looping through the array of results and this is the line where we create
a bulleted list item for each result.
Now, within this, a tag is the actual text that the user clicks on, right.
That's what's creating this biologies cooling.
So how about right after that link closes?
But still before the closing list item tag, we output a little bit of text here that says by and then
the author name would go here instead of this gibberish.
So let me delete that.
And since we are within a template literal, it's very easy to switch between simple string text and
a JavaScript expression.
We just say dollar sign curly brackets and then within the curly brackets we can say idam to begin looking
at the current result.
And then remember back in Postman, we can see that the new property was named author name.
So we just say Eitam dot author name.
Cool.
Now if I go ahead and save this and make sure that over in your command line you either run golpe scripts
or you've got your gold watch task running.
But now back in the browser, if I search for Buyology, perfect.
Here's the title by Brad.
However, if I search for something more generic like Lorem as in Lorem Ipsum, we see that for blog
posts.
This works perfectly by the author's name, but for pages.
Right for the post type of page we see by undefined.
Now the reason for this is because back in functions HP remember that the first argument for this register,
Westfield is the post type that you want to add the new field to.
And we chose the post post type as in blog posts.
So this means that our page post types do not have a field named author name, which explains why we
see undefined.
So why don't we do this in our JavaScript?
Let's use a bit of.
Additional logic and say only if a resulting item is a blog post, only then do we want to display this
by author text.
So back in our JavaScript.
Search J.S., Here's that new buy and then the author name that we just added, let's actually go ahead
and cut this into our clipboard so we can wrap it within a bit of conditional logic.
So right now, my cursor is in the middle of a JavaScript template, literal and as we learned in a
previous lesson, you cannot use an if statement in a template literal.
However, we can use the ternary operator to basically create an if statement.
So to do that, let's open up an expression.
So dollar sign curly brackets and then within the brackets, let's spell out our ternary operator.
So to refresh your memory, you begin with a condition, then a question mark, then you say what you
want to do.
If the condition is true, then a colon, then you say what you want to do, if the condition is false.
So for our condition, let's just say Eitam dot type equals post.
And in case you're wondering how I knew that each object would have a property named type.
Well, you can always just look back in postman and see that in the resulting JSON there's a property
named type.
So that way you can always check what kind of post typed you're working with.
So back in our code, if this is true, if the type equals post, then let's get rid of the placeholder.
Yay!
And let's just open up a template literal.
So back, tick, back, tick.
And in between those we can just paste back in our clipboard.
So that will give us the by author name text.
And if this condition is false instead of the placeholder name, let's just include a completely blank
set of quotes.
OK, let's give this a save.
And now if I search for something that will return both posts and pages perfect.
We see the blog posts, say, by the author name and the pages don't.
And that's going to bring this lesson to a close to review.
We learned how to add new properties to the raw JSON data that WordPress sends back to us.
So at this rest API posts you URL by search for author name.
There we see it.
The take away idea for this lesson is that being able to customize this resulting JSON data opens up
all sorts of possibilities.
And in our next lesson, we're going to take things a step further, actually more like 20 steps further
in the next lesson.
Instead of learning how to modify one of these existing rest API URLs, we are going to learn how to
create our own brand new completely custom rest API url.
So, for example, instead of WP JSON to posts, we could have something like Jason University, the
one search.
And then since we're creating our own brand new U.
RL, instead of modifying an existing WordPress one, this means we are in 100 percent control over
the JSON data that gets sent back.
Being able to take matters into our own hands like this opens up the door to so many possibilities.
So let's keep rolling along and I will see you in the next lesson.